{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qr\lang1033\f0\fs20 December 13, 2001\par
\pard\b\fs24 Contents\b0\par
\fs20\par
1. Welcome\par
\par
2. Minimum System Requirements\par
\par
3. Technical Issues\par
\par
4. Acknowledgements\par
\par
5. Changes\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 1. Welcome\b0\fs20\par
\par
Thank you for purchasing Tux Racer.\par
\par
This document contains last minute information about Tux Racer, as well as a guide to finding answers to your technical questions.  For the latest in information and patches, be sure to visit the Tux Racer website at http://www.tuxracer.com or the Sunspire Studios website at http://www.sunspirestudios.com.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. Minimum System Requirements\fs20\par
\b0\par
Hard Disk Space Required: 125 Mb\par
\par
Under Windows, DirectX 8.0 or greater is required (available from http://www.microsoft.com/directx).\par
Under Linux, XFree86 3.3.5 or newer is required.\par
\par
Minimum Specs:\par
300Mhz CPU\par
64MB RAM\par
OpenGL compatible graphics card\par
DirectSound compatible sound card (Windows)\par
OSS compatible sound card (Linux)\par
\par
Suggested Specs:\par
500Mhz CPU\par
128MB RAM\par
32MB OpenGL compatible graphics card\par
DirectSound compatible sound card (Windows)\par
OSS compatible sound card (Linux)\par
\par
Supported Operating Systems:\par
Windows 98\par
Windows 2000\par
Windows ME\par
Windows XP\par
Linux (x86 only, kernel 2.2.x or 2.4.x)\par
\par
Supported Video Cards (Windows):\par
(ALL Cards must be have at least 16MB Video RAM)\par
NVIDIA TNT2 [1]\par
NVIDIA GeForce\par
NVIDIA GeForce2\par
NVIDIA GeForce3\par
Matrox G450 [2] \par
Matrox G550 [2]\par
ATI Radeon\par
3dfx Voodoo3 [3]\par
\par
[1] Updated drivers may be required for TNT2 cards. These can be retrieved from the nVidia web site (www.nvidia.com).\par
[2] Matrox cards will require the latest drivers from the Matrox web site (www.matrox.com). Also, for shadows and reflections to operate correctly, you must change the advanced properties in the Matrox power desktop to turn on 32-bitZ.\par
[3] 3dfx no longer exists and therefore there is no longer any vendor support for these video cards.  We have tested Tux Racer on the Voodoo3 2000 graphics card with success.  The Voodoo4 and Voodoo5 models may also work, but we have not tested these models.\par
\par
Supported Video Cards (Linux):\par
NVIDIA TNT2\par
NVIDIA GeForce\par
NVIDIA GeForce2\par
NVIDIA GeForce3\par
These cards will require the latest Linux drivers available from http://www.nvidia.com.\par
\par
Other cards with complete OpenGL 1.2-compatible Linux drivers should work with Tux Racer, but are not supported.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. Technical Issues\fs20\par
\b0\par
3.1. Ensure that you have the latest drivers for your video card.\par
\par
In order to properly run Tux Racer, you make sure that you have installed the latest OpenGL-compatible drivers for your video card.\par
\par
Windows users can obtain the latest drivers from their video card manufacturer's web site.  Here is a partial list:\par
\par
NVIDIA:\tab\tab http://www.nvidia.com\par
ATI:\tab\tab http://www.ati.com\par
Matrox:\tab\tab http://www.matrox.com\par
3dfx:\tab\tab http://www.voodoofiles.com [3dfx no longer provides support]\par
\par
Linux users:\par
Linux NVIDIA drivers are available here:\par
\tab http://www.nvidia.com/view.asp?PAGE=linux\par
\par
Information about Linux drivers for ATI products is available here:\par
\tab http://www.ati.com/na/pages/resource_centre/dev_rel/linux.html\par
\par
Information about Linux drivers for Matrox products is available here:\par
\tab http://www.matrox.com/mga/support/drivers/3rd_party/home.cfm\par
\par
Information about Linux drivers for 3dfx products is available here:\par
\tab http://www.linuxvoodoo.com/\par
\par
\par
3.2. Switching between 32-bit color and 16-bit color.\par
\par
You can switch between 32-bit color and 16-bit color from the Configure->Video screen.  However, on some systems this will produce an\par
error.\par
\par
If you are unable to switch between 32-bit color and 16-bit color in-game, you can change this setting by editing Tux Racer's options file.  Quit Tux Racer and open the TuxRacer\\config\\options.txt file (in Windows) or the ~/.tuxracer-v1/options file (in Linux).  Search for the line that starts with "set bpp_mode" and change it to\par
    set bpp_mode 1\par
for 16-bit color or\par
    set bpp_mode 2\par
for 32-bit color.\par
\par
3.3. 32-bit color for full features\par
\par
Some features (such as reflections, shadows, and bump-mapping) only work using 32-bit color.  (See 3.2 above for information on switching between 32-bit color and 16-bit color.)\par
\par
3.4. 16-Bit Windowed mode issue\par
\par
On some systems, windowed mode only works in 32-bit color mode, so if you are having problems playing Tux Racer in windowed mode, first set your desktop bit depth to 32-bit, as well as setting Tux Racer to 32-bit color mode.  (See 3.2 above for information on switching between 32-bit color and 16-bit color.)\par
\par
3.5. Framerate improvement\par
\par
If you find your framerate seems low, try disabling shadows by clicking the checkbox off in the Configure->Graphics screen.  Turning off shadows will have a bigger impact on performance than any of the other options.\par
\par
3.6. Difficulty level\par
\par
If you find the default settings are too difficult, try setting the level of difficulty to Easy by going to the Player Selection screen, creating a new player and selecting Easy from the Difficulty box.\par
\par
3.7. 11KHz sound issue\par
\par
Sound needs to be set to 22KHz or higher to avoid problems with music playback.  Note that the only way of changing the sound settings\par
is by editing the options file.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 4. Acknowledgements\par
\b0\fs20\par
Tux Racer uses the Simple Directmedia Layer Library (SDL) under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License.  See the file LGPL.txt for a copy of this license.  Source code for SDL is included in the 'extras' directory of the Tux Racer CD.  SDL is Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001  Sam Lantinga.\par
\par
Tux Racer uses the SDL MPEG Player Library (SMPEG) under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License.  See the file LGPL.txt for a copy of this license.  Source code for SMPEG is included in the 'extras' directory of the Tux Racer CD.  SMPEG is Copyright (C) 1999 Loki Entertainment Software.\par
\par
Tux Racer (Linux Version) uses the SDL_mixer Library under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License.  See the file LGPL.txt for a copy of this license.  Source code for SDL_mixer is included in the 'extras' directory of the Tux Racer CD.  SMPEG is Copyright (C) 1999 Loki Entertainment Software.\par
\par
Tux Racer uses the Loki Setup Installer, written by Sam Lantinga and St\'e9phane Peter, under the terms of the GNU General Public License.   See the file GPL.txt for a copy of this license.  The installer also uses the Loki SetupDB package written by St\'e9phane Peter and Sam Lantinga at Loki Software, Inc., which is also covered by the GNU General Public License.  Source code for the Setup Installer and SetupDB is included in the the 'extras' directory of the Tux Racer CD.\par
\par
Tux Racer use the libz library, Copytigh 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler.\par
\par
Tux Racer use the libpng library, Copyright 2000, 2001 Glenn Randers-Pehrson.\par
\par
Tux Racer uses the Tcl library by Scriptics Corporation.  The Tcl licensing terms are included in the file Tcl_license.txt included on the Tux Racer CD.\par
\par
\par
\b\fs24 5. Changes\par
\b0\fs20\par
Version 1.1:\par
- First retail release\par
- Added Head-to-Head mode\par
- Several gameplay tweaks and bug fixes\par
\par
Version 1.0.003:\par
- Added low-res versions of object models\par
\par
Version 1.0.002:\par
- Tweaked English font bitmaps\par
- Disabled obsolete F10 console keybinding\par
\par
Version 1.0.001:\par
- Fixed music loading bug in Arctic Cup\par
\par
}
 